Information Security Analyst I
Published Date: Jun 17, 2025

Location: US

Company: Los Angeles Unified School District

SALARY DETAILS
$55.96 - $68.86 Hourly

APPLICATION OPEN DATE
6/17/25

INFORMATION ABOUT LAUSD
We are LAUSD. We are at the forefront of innovation in public education, focused on a clear and inspiring vision of the future for all of our students as they venture forward on their journey as lifelong learners. Here, you will have the opportunity to exercise your potential in a role supporting the business of education. Our work directly contributes toward the goal of ensuring that our students graduate ready for the world – ready to thrive in college, career and life. LAUSD is the second largest school district in the nation with an enrollment of nearly 575,000 students. We serve an area totaling 710 square miles, with over 1,190 schools and educational centers, and we employ over 74,000 individuals, making us one of the largest employers in our city.

DEPARTMENT OR SCHOOL SITE
The District's Information Technology Division (ITD) has 600+ staff members, including programmers, network engineers, project managers, and administrative staff - all of whom provide support to the schools and LAUSD's business/functional units in a professional, forward thinking, and challenging environment. Technologies supported range from personal systems to enterprise-wide systems and applications.

 

The IT Division's offices are located at the District Headquarters building in downtown Los Angeles.

PROJECT
An Information Security Analyst I performs a variety of technical assignments in an effort to protect information assets by testing and evaluating systems; identify and document vulnerabilities, and raises awareness of information security initiatives and practices. 

BENEFITS
Insurance: Paid premiums for your choice of several medical, dental, vision, and life insurance plans.

Retirement: Membership in the California Public Employee Retirement System (CalPERS).

Vacation: Full-time employees earn up to two weeks of paid vacation to start. Three weeks after five years of year-round paid service.

Paid Holidays: Up to 13 days.

JOB DUTIES/RESPONSIBILITIES
Typical Duties

Develops and maintains security configuration baselines for a broad range of IT assets that support District operations and identifies any unsecure deviations requiring mitigation. 
Ensures that all configuration changes resulting from critical security patches released by software and hardware vendors are complete, accurate, and timely.
Reviews government, vendor, and private and open source vulnerability databases to identify and evaluate relevant software flaws, server misconfigurations, common vulnerabilities, and impact metrics for IT assets in accordance with District policies, IT operations, and information security standards.
Maps all known vulnerabilities to asset owners and business functions and produce monthly baseline reports with remediation recommendations and any unapproved changes that should be investigated.
Maintains an internal database of discovered vulnerabilities and their resolution targeting IT assets that support District-wide processes.
Conducts proactive activities to discover physical security IT assets vulnerabilities in District facilities and building systems.
Develops, maintains, and distributes a centralized vulnerability remediation schedule based on severity across the District and coordinates with stakeholders for planning.
Designs and develops cybersecurity awareness newsletters, email messages, videos, presentations, and other content for use in training students and school staff on how to protect information assets.
Trains non-technical employees and other stakeholders to be aware of common attack techniques and methods to safely use of the internet, email, network, and other District resources.
Identifies and prioritizes training issues by location and user group by periodically sending simulated phishing emails to a sample of randomly selected District network users.
May transport equipment between data centers, central offices, and other job sites.
Performs related duties as assigned. 
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
EDUCATION:

Graduation from a recognized college or university with a bachelor’s degree, preferably in information security, information systems, information technology, computer science, software engineering, or a related field. Qualifying experience in addition to that required may be substituted on a year-for-year basis provided that the requirement of a high school diploma or equivalent is met.

 

EXPERIENCE:

Two years of experience in an IT data center, operating systems and/or IT security environment performing information security tasks such as monitoring systems, configuration and change management, training and awareness, systems analysis, and/or other information security responsibilities. One year of the above experience must have included experience in vulnerability management. 

 

SPECIAL:

A Comp TIA Security+, GIAC Information Security Fundamentals (GISF), ISACA Cybersecurity Fundamentals (CSX), Certified Vulnerability Assessors (CVA) certification, or equivalent certification is preferred. 

A valid driver's license to legally operate a motor vehicle in the State of California and the use of a motor vehicle, or the ability to utilize an alternative method of transportation.

 

This class description is not a complete statement of essential functions, responsibilities, or requirements. Entrance requirements are representative of the minimum level of knowledge, skill, and/or abilities. To the extent permitted by law, management retains the discretion to add or change typical duties of a position at any time, as long as such addition or change is reasonably related to existing duties.

DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS
The ideal candidate for this role will have knowledge in the following areas:

- Concepts, procedures, and controls relating to information security frameworks (e.g. NIST), open-source vulnerability databases, antivirus, access control, identity management, and cryptography

- Core IT infrastructure management tools including Microsoft Active Directory Domain Services, LDAP, DNS, Certificate Services

- Essential components of each IT architecture layer including core IT infrastructure layer, applications layer, network layer, computing layer, physical layer, and storage layer

- Vulnerability scanning tools including but not limited to Nessus, SecurityCenter, AppDetective, and WebInspect

- Microsoft Windows operating system and relevant software 

 

Additionally, the ideal candidate for this role will have the ability to:

- Perform complex analysis of threat trends, vulnerability, and intrusion detection systems

- Troubleshoot and resolve information security issues in an efficient and effective manner

- Exercise good judgment in making decisions

- Formulate innovative recommendations for process improvement and enhance organizational effectiveness

- Communicate effectively both verbally and in writing

- Problem solve and work within established timeframes to deliver timely results

- Establish and maintain effective working relationships with District personnel and the public

- Maintain confidentiality have impartial and objective views 

EMPLOYMENT SELECTION PROCESS
The selection process for this position will tentatively consist of a Technical Interview. The employment examination process is intended to measure your job-related experience and evaluate your qualifications beyond the minimum requirements. For this reason, it is recommended that your application materials clearly show all of your relevant background and specialized skills, knowledge, and abilities.

 

We anticipate receiving a number of well qualified applicants for this position; therefore, there will be a competitive employment selection process. The hiring departments have requested that we proceed with the selection process in an expeditious and timely manner. To honor this request we will be adhering to a pre-planned employment assessment schedule.

 

Please be sure to include correspondence from @lausd.net and @successfactors.com as an approved sender so that messages aren't accidentally placed into your spam/junk e-mail folder. For more information about the LAUSD employment assessment process, visit our website at http://www.lausdjobs.org.

 

For additional questions pertaining to this recruitment, contact Sumaya Islam at sumaya.islam@lausd.net.

APPLICATION PROCESS
DO YOU NEED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WITH THE ON-LINE APPLICATION? Email us at helpmeapply@lausd.net

 

To find out whether the application deadline has been extended, visit the website at: http://www.lausdjobs.org . The Los Angeles Unified School District intends that all qualified persons shall have equal opportunities for employment and promotion.

 

Reasonable accommodations in completing an application and testing are available to individuals with disabilities. Please call (213) 241-3455 for more information.

ADDITIONAL POSTING INFORMATION
The Los Angeles Unified School District is committed to providing a working and learning environment free from discrimination, harassment, intimidation, abusive conduct, or bullying. The District prohibits discrimination, harassment, intimidation, abusive conduct or bullying based on actual or perceived race or ethnicity, gender/sex (including gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding/lactation status and related medical conditions), sexual orientation, religion, color, national origin (including language use restrictions and possession of a driver’s license issued under Vehicle Code), ancestry, immigration status, physical or mental disability (including clinical depression and bipolar disorder, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, epilepsy, seizure disorder, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and heart disease), medical condition (cancer related and genetic characteristics), military and veteran status, marital status, registered domestic partner status, age (40 and above), genetic information, political belief or affiliation (unless union related), a person's association with a person or group with one or more of these actual or perceived characteristics, or any other basis protected by federal, state or local law, ordinance, or regulation in any program or activity it conducts or to which it provides significant assistanc